Cal Cultures
---------------

Main California Cultures Page: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/

African Americans: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/ethnic1.html

Although a relative few Afro-Latinos and other Africans came to California before the mid-19th century, the Gold Rush brought the first real migration of African Americans to the state. Historic photographs and artwork show the changing lives of African Americans from the Gold Rush Era and Statehood (when many, but not all, slaves in California gained their freedom), through years of struggle to claim their civil rights. Although these images cannot possibly encompass every aspect of African American life in America during this time, they offer a candid look into a number of important areas in California: black migration into the state, the effects of segregation and racial discrimination, the struggle for social equality, the Civil Rights Movement and its leaders, the Black Panthers, urban violence and community renewal, and the rise of the black middle class and black political leadership.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic1a.html: Gold Rush Era to 1900
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic1b.html: The Struggle for Economic Equality (1900-1950s)
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic1e.html: Community Life (1950s-1980s)
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic1d.html: Politics and Community (1970s-present)
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic1c.html: Civil Rights and Social Reform (1950s-1970s)

Asian Americans: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/ethnic2.html

People from Asia began migrating to California during the Gold Rush era. But a number of factors — including the 1882 Chinese Exclusion act, the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, and the "alien ineligible for citizenship" status imposed on Asian immigrants into the 1950s and 1960s — limited their numbers. In 1965, federal officials changed immigration policy to allow migration from Asia after many years of exclusion.

The 2000 US Census reported that 49% of all Asian Americans lived in the West. California became home to thriving immigrant communities from China, Japan, the Philippines, Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Hong Kong, Thailand, and other parts of Asia. The greatest concentration of these 3 million Asian Americans was in the San Francisco Bay Area; large numbers also settled in Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, Fresno, Sutter, Yuba, and Sacramento counties.

According to 2000 census data, a higher percentage of Asian Americans attended college than any other California group. Yet their per capita income still lagged significantly behind that of whites ($22,000 versus $31,700, suggesting the continued presence of a glass ceiling for Asian Americans. The growing political strength of Asian Americans, which is just beginning to be exercised, has thus far manifested in the elections of US Senator S. I. Hayakawa, Congressmen Robert Matsui, Mike Honda, and Norman Mineta, California Secretary of State March Fong Eu, and California State Treasurer Matt Fong.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic2E.html: Everyday Life and Cultural Traditions, 1860s-1980s
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic2a.html: Gold Rush Era to 1890s
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic2b.html: Early 20th Century
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic2c.html: World War II
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic2d.html: New Communities: 1960s-Present

Hispanic Americans: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/ethnic3.html

Hispanic explorers first reached the shores of California in the 1500s. By the 19th century, Spain had built missions throughout the state, the Californios owned huge land grants, and California was part of the United States of Mexico. From that time to the present, Hispanic Californians have been among the largest cultural groups in the state. These images trace the history of Hispanic Americans in California from the Mission system and Californios into the 20th century: Mexican immigration into California, the farmworkers' labor struggles, and the Chicano Civil Rights movement and La Raza, which also resulted in an explosion of cultural art. Although a number of different Hispanic American groups now live in the state, the images in this topic largely portray Mexican Americans, who have always comprised the majority of Hispanic Californians.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic3a.html: Spanish Colonization and Californios (1769-1800s)
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic3b.html: Migrant Workers and Braceros (1930s-1964)
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic3c.html: Racial Tensions During World War II
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic3d.html: Cultural Traditions and the People (1930s-1960s)
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic3e.html: Barrios (1930s-1960s)
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic3g.html: Everyday Life: Hispanic Americans (1940s-1970s)
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic3f.html: Politics and Community (1960s-Present)

Native Americans: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/ethnic4.html

At the time of Spanish colonization in the late 1700s, California was home to more than 300,000 native people in more than 200 tribes. Their centuries-old way of life was brought to an end relatively quickly: native Californians soon established regular trading relationships with the Spanish, increasing coastal groups' power and prestige, giving them greater leverage in dealings with inland groups.

But Native Californians were not immune to Old World diseases. Smallpox, influenza, dysentery, malaria, measles, and syphilis spread from group to group. By 1848, such diseases had reduced California's native population by more than two-thirds. This catastrophic decline disrupted families, communities, and trading networks, weakening native resistance to Spanish, Mexican, and American intrusion.

By 1860, the state's native population had been reduced to 30,000, decimated by disease, poverty, the influx of gold miners, assimilation, and other historical factors. Just 40 years later, in 1900, this population had plummeted to 20,000.

During the later part of the 20th century, tribes throughout the United States joined in a struggle for Indian rights. A controversial 1987 US Supreme Court decision affirming Native Americans' right to build casinos on reservation lands dramatically changed the economic, political, and social landscapes of California's native peoples.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic4a.html: Pre-Columbian California – 18th Century
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/california-cultures/california-rock-art: Native American Rock Art in California
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic4d.html: The 19th Century
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic4e.html: The 20th Century and Today
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/calcultures/ethnic_groups/subtopic4f.html: Arts and Traditions in Everyday Life (1900s-1950s)

Cal History
---------------

Main California History Page: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/

1780-1880: California in Transition: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/topics0.html

Several social, political, and economic transitions marked the conquest and cultural exchange of California's early history. Native American communities were transformed as a result of European exploration and settlement in the late 18th century. Spain constructed missions and military presidios in Alta California to increase Spanish settlement in the new colony and encourage religious conversion among Native Americans. The mission structures remained long after the collapse of Spanish authority. Following Mexico's independence from Spain in 1821, vast land grants helped elite Californio society flourish until the 1880s. Today, the state's wealth continues to be defined through the utilization of its rich resources and its immense natural and human potential.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic0c.html: Early California Exploration and Settlement
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic0b.html: California Missions
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic0a.html: Californio Society
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic0d.html: Rich Resources
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic0e.html: Everyday Life

1848-1865: The Gold Rush Era: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/topics1.html

The few short years of the Gold Rush changed California's population and environment dramatically. Ethnic diversity grew as people from all over the world poured into the state, ignoring numerous dangers and the ever-present risk of earthquakes to follow their dreams of striking gold. This sudden influx, and the gold mining industry in general, had a significant impact on the environment and contributed to the rapid growth of cities throughout the state. The state's legal infrastructure lagged behind this growth, however, and the lawless atmosphere of the gold mining communities led to a growing problem of murder and mayhem. Law-abiding citizens began to see the need to strengthen existing legal and judicial institutions to ensure a more peaceful approach to everyday life.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic1a.html: Murder and Mayhem
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic1b.html: Disasters
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic1c.html: Everyday Life and People
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic1d.html: Environmental Impact
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic1e.html: Growth of Cities
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic1f.html: Diversity in the Changing State

1870-1900: Closing of the Frontier: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/topics2.html

During the final decades of 19th century, a transcontinental railroad was built. For the first time, the east and west coasts of the United States were connected. This opened the West to the rest of the country and, in the words of Frederick Turner, effectively "closed the frontier": the vast continent no longer seemed limitless. Native Americans felt the impact of the increasing numbers of European Americans, who attempted to remove them from their tribal lands and assimilate them into Western culture. Chinese citizens also faced daily prejudice, resulting in The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which closed the United States to further Chinese immigration. The new railroad made travel faster and safer, and westward expansion brought more and more people. As open range became settled, the emerging conservation movement advocated for laws and restrictions to protect the natural wonders and beauty that remained.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic2a.html: Chinese Exclusion Act
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic2b.html: The Transcontinental Railroad
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic2c.html: Native Americans and Contact
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic2d.html: Preservation of the West
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collection/john-muir-letters: The Letters of John Muir
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic2e.html: Everyday Life and People

1900–1940s: Emerging Industrial Order: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/topics3.html

Technological innovation and rapid cultural change marked the first few decades of the 20th century in the United States, and California was no exception. Advances in technology led to rapid industrialization of the workplace. Factories and assembly lines became the norm, changing the way Americans worked. As people continued to migrate to California from other parts of the country and around the world in search of work and a better life, the state grew more diverse. With factories producing greater quantities of products, a need emerged for a better way to promote those products to more people, sparking the beginning of the modern advertising industry. Technological innovations and improved communications also influenced popular culture and the way people spent their free time. The movie industry in particular put Southern California on the map, making the area a magnet for would-be stars and star-gazers.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic3a.html: The Changing Workplace
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic3b.html: The Rise of Technology
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic3c.html: Growing Ethnic Diversity
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic3d.html: Early Advertising
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic3e.html: Popular Culture
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic3f.html: Everyday Life and People

1929-1939: The Great Depression: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/topics4.html

For California, the nation, and the world, the 1930s was a period of particularly hard times. The US stock market crash of 1929 set off the most severe economic depression in the Western world. In the American Midwest, this was compounded by a severe drought that destroyed crops and farms. Of the 2.5 million Dust Bowl immigrants who left the Plains states, about 200,000 moved to California. They joined a population that was already facing massive unemployment and low wages. During the Great Depression, labor issues were commonplace and strikes occurred frequently. One of the best known was the 1934 San Francisco General Strike. President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal offered ordinary Americans relief and help by funding a range of public works projects and regional development of bridges, dams, and power plants.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic4a.html: Dust Bowl Migration
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic4b.html: Hard Times
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic4c.html: Help and a New Deal
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic4d.html: San Francisco General Strike
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic4e.html: Building Bridges, Dams, Power Plants
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic4f.html: Everyday Life in Hard Times

1939–1945: World War II: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/topics5.html

American mobilization for World War II spurred significant changes in the nation's social and economic landscape. Americans who remained on the home front contributed to the war effort in various ways. With so many men in the armed services, industry had a lot of jobs to fill. For the first time, women joined the workforce in record numbers, finding work in previously male-dominated industries such as factories and shipyards. The acute need for workers also opened up new employment possibilities for African Americans, who migrated to the West Coast from other parts of the country. Many Mexicans came to California through the government-sponsored Bracero Program, which was organized to fill the need for agricultural field workers. After the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor, the government saw Japanese Americans as possible enemies. Nearly 122,000 Japanese Americans were relocated against their will to internment camps in the West and Northwest, where they spent the duration of the war. Some Japanese American men voluntarily joined special fighting units, such as the much-decorated 442nd Regimental Combat Team.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic5a.html: Women in the Workforce
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic5b.html: Life on the Home Front
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic5c.html: The Bracero Program
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic5d.html: Richmond Shipyards
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic5e.html: Japanese American Internment
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic5f.html: The 442nd Regimental Combat Team
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic5g.html: California and the Postwar Suburban Home
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic5h.html: Everyday Life During World War II

1950s-1970s: Social Reform: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/topics6.html

From the period of the 1950s through the 1970s, struggles for civil and social rights, equality, and justice swept the United States. At universities and colleges, students championed the Free Speech Movement, demanding their right to free speech, political protest, and academic freedom. African Americans struggled for civil rights, and many groups fought for social justice — demanding equal rights, better working conditions, and an end to the Vietnam War. In 1965, feelings about racial inequality and economic and social injustice boiled over into widespread violence for the first time in Los Angeles's African American community of Watts. The community's transformation from angry frustration to hopeful growth is just one example of what was taking place in similar neighborhoods across the country during this tumultuous time.

http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic6a.html: The Civil Rights Movement
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic6b.html: The Free Speech Movement
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic6c.html: Watts
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic6d.html: Struggles for Social Justice
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collections/subtopic6e.html: Everyday Life
http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/themed_collection/LGBT-Pride-Parade/: The LGBT Pride Parade

JARDA
---------------

Main JARDA Page: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/jarda/

People: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/jarda/browse/people.html

The images in this topic show the faces of Japanese Americans before, during, and after incarceration. Most of the photographs were taken by War Relocation Authority (WRA) photographers for publicity purposes and tend to show people who are smiling or stoic. The paintings by internee artists Estelle Ishigo and Henry Sugimoto suggest a more emotional and somber mood.

Places: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/jarda/browse/places.html

From March 1942 to 1946, the US War Relocation Authority (WRA) had jurisdiction over the Japanese and Japanese Americans evacuated from their homes in California, Oregon, and Washington. The WRA photographs document the places that played a role in evacuation, relocation, incarceration, and resettlement — as the government wished to present them. Few, for example, show the barbed wire fences and guards that kept internees imprisoned. Although photographer Dorothea Lange also worked for the WRA, her images manage to suggest a more somber personal experience. In contrast, the paintings by internees portray the camps as experienced by the people who lived there.

Daily Life: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/jarda/browse/daily-life.html

With thousands of residents, the internment camps inevitably became communities where families carried on with the details of daily life: adults worked, children went to school. This topic illustrates much of the daily life of internees, including camp administration, sleeping/eating/personal care, work, social life, study, events, relocation, and resettlement. The images show daily life as the government portrayed it in "publicity" photographs taken by government photographers, and through the art and camera lenses of the internees who lived it.

Personal Experiences: http://www.calisphere.universityofcalifornia.edu/0/jarda/browse/personal-experiences.html

The images in this topic were created by men, women, and youth during their incarceration in relocation camps. Artists expressed the internal experience of camp life in paintings and drawings. Writings — including memoirs, illustrated diaries, scrapbooks, and letters home — reflect the daily struggle of men, women, and children trying to live "normal" lives in remote, guarded camps behind barbed wire. These personal creations express experiences that are often more emotionally complex than the official government photographs. The images in this topic depict reality through the eyes of Japanese Americans, reflecting a mix of emotions, including anger, uncertainty, and hope.